[FLINK-15352][connector-jdbc] Develop MySQLCatalog to connect Flink with MySQL tables and ecosystem. (#16962)
apache/flink: docs/content/docs/connectors/table/jdbc.md

    </tbody>
</table>

JDBC Catalog
------------

The `JdbcCatalog` enables users to connect Flink to relational databases over JDBC protocol.

> Currently, there are two JDBC catalog implementations, `PostgresCatalog` and `MySQLCatalog`. They support the following catalog methods. Other methods are currently not supported.

Author: done.

    </tbody>
</table>

JDBC Catalog
------------

The `JdbcCatalog` enables users to connect Flink to relational databases over JDBC protocol.

> Currently, `PostgresCatalog` and `MySQLCatalog` are the two implementations of JDBC Catalog at the moment, `JdbcCatalog` only supports limited `Catalog` methods include:

Reviewer: This sentence is a bit confusing. How about this?

```suggestion
Currently, there are two JDBC catalog implementations, `PostgresCatalog` and `MySQLCatalog`. They support the following catalog methods. Other methods are currently not supported.
```

```java
// The supported methods by Postgres & MySQL Catalog.
databaseExists(String databaseName);
listDatabases();
getDatabase(String databaseName);
listTables(String databaseName);
getTable(ObjectPath tablePath);
tableExists(ObjectPath tablePath);
```

> Other `Catalog` methods is unsupported now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

(moved to the paragraph above in my suggestion)

### Usage of JDBC Catalog

The section mainly describes how to create and use a `PostgresCatalog` or `MySQLCatalog`.

> Please refer to [Dependencies](#dependencies) section for how to setup a JDBC connector and Postgres/MySQL driver.

Reviewer: It would be good to avoid explicitly listing all supported implementations where possible, e.g.

```suggestion
Please refer to [Dependencies](#dependencies) section for how to setup a JDBC connector and the corresponding driver.
```

> Postgres/MySQL catalog supports the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JDBC catalog supports the following options:
```

- `name`: required, name of the catalog.
- `default-database`: required, default database to connect to.
- `username`: required, username of Postgres/MySQL account.
- `password`: required, password of the account.

> - `base-url`: required,
>   - `in PostgresCatalog case:` should be of format `"jdbc:postgresql://<ip>:<port>"`, and should not contain database name here.
>   - `in MySQLCatalog case:` should be of format `"jdbc:mysql://<ip>:<port>"`, and should not contain database name here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `base-url`: required (should not contain the database name)
  - for `PostgresCatalog` this should be `"jdbc:postgresql://<ip>:<port>"`
  - for `MySQLCatalog` this should be `"jdbc:mysql://<ip>:<port>"`
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ### Jdbc Catalog for PostgreSQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### JDBC Catalog for PostgreSQL
```

In Flink, when querying tables registered by MySQL catalog, users can use either `database.table_name` or just `table_name`. The default value is the default database specified when `MySQLCatalog` was created.

Therefore, the metaspace mapping between Flink Catalog and MySQLCatalog is as following:

| Flink Catalog Metaspace Structure    |   MySQL Metaspace Structure         |
| :------------------------------------| :-----------------------------------|
| catalog name (defined in Flink only) | N/A                                 |
| database name                        | database name                       |
| table name                           | table_name                          |

The full path of MySQL table in Flink should be ``"`<catalog>`.`<db>`.`<table>`"``.

Here are some examples to access MySQL tables:

```sql
-- scan table 'test_table', the default database is 'mydb'.
SELECT * FROM mysql_catalog.mydb.test_table;
SELECT * FROM mydb.test_table;
SELECT * FROM test_table;

-- scan table 'test_table' with the given database.
SELECT * FROM mysql_catalog.given_database.test_table2;
SELECT * FROM given_database.test_table2;
```

> <span class="label label-danger">Attention</span> At present, when reading data from a table, the `YEAR` type is read as the `DATE` type by default, but writing data in `YEAR` type is not supported by `MySQLCatalog` yet. The same restrictions apply to the reading and writing of the `GEOMETRY` type. The `GEOMETRY` type fields will be read as the `BYTES` type by default in reading data from a table, but the writing of the `GEOMETRY` data type is not supported by `MySQLCatalog` when writing data into a table.

Author: Hi, @Airblader The GEOMETRY type will be added in the [FLINK-9219](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-9219).

SELECT * FROM `custom_schema.test_table2`;
```

> ### Jdbc Catalog for MySQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### JDBC Catalog for MySQL
```

> #### MySQL Metaspace Mapping

Reviewer: Is this entire section really useful? For Postgres it exists because the mapping isn't trivial, but for MySQL it behaves exactly as expected. This is a lot of text for saying just that, and e.g. being able to use `database.table_name` or `table_name` is not specific to the MySQLCatalog, but just how Flink SQL works.

Author: Thank you @Airblader so much for comments. 
I just want to use this section to describe briefly that MySQL is almost smooth when mapping to the flink  catalog.
And please let me know what's your opinion about optimizing the section. 
Thank you.

> The databases in a `MySQL` instance are at the same mapping level as the databases under the catalog registered with `MySQLCatalog`. A MySQL instance can have multiple databases, each database can have multiple tables.

Reviewer: "MySQL" does not refer to a class, so we don't need to format it as code.

```suggestion
The databases in a MySQL instance are at the same mapping level as the databases under the catalog registered with `MySQLCatalog`. A MySQL instance can have multiple databases, each database can have multiple tables.
```

In Flink, when querying tables registered by MySQL catalog, users can use either `database.table_name` or just `table_name`. The default value is the default database specified when `MySQLCatalog` was created.

Therefore, the metaspace mapping between Flink Catalog and MySQLCatalog is as following:

| Flink Catalog Metaspace Structure    |   MySQL Metaspace Structure         |
| :------------------------------------| :-----------------------------------|
| catalog name (defined in Flink only) | N/A                                 |
| database name                        | database name                       |
| table name                           | table_name                          |

The full path of MySQL table in Flink should be ``"`<catalog>`.`<db>`.`<table>`"``.

Here are some examples to access MySQL tables:

```sql
-- scan table 'test_table', the default database is 'mydb'.
SELECT * FROM mysql_catalog.mydb.test_table;
SELECT * FROM mydb.test_table;
SELECT * FROM test_table;

-- scan table 'test_table' with the given database.

> SELECT * FROM mysql_catalog.given_database.test_table2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT * FROM mysql_catalog.given_database.test_table2;
```
